An integrated development environment (IDE) or interactive development environment is a software application that provides comprehensive facilities to computer programmers for software development. An IDE normally consists of a source code editor, build automation tools and a debugger. Most modern IDEs offer Intelligent code completion features.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Multi-Language IDEs


1.Eclipse
Eclipse is the free and open-source editor upon which many development frameworks are based. It's one of the granddaddies in its field and comes highly recommended by many a professional developer. Eclipse began as a Java development environment and has greatly expanded through a system of lightweight plugins.


2.NetBeans
NetBeans is neck-and-neck with Eclipse as the most-recommended IDE in this category. It's free and open-source, supports tons of languages with more plugins coming all the time, and is incredibly simple to install and use, even for a beginner.


3.Komodo
This enterprise-level tool might be best for the pro developer because of its higher price point. For beginners, you might also want to check out the Komodo-based, FOSS editor Open Komodo or Komodo's FOSS version, Komodo Edit.

4.Aptana
Aptana is a popular choice for web app development. Aptana Studio 2 can be used as a stand-alone IDE or can be plugged into Eclipse. Aptana comes with Firebug support built-in, and its developer community seems to release plugins for other languages as needed.

5.BlackAdder
This IDE is designed for Python and Ruby devs creating apps for Windows and Linux. It includes a text editor as well as a GUI designer that uses pyQT and QT Designer. The makers of BlackAdder allow you to test drive the IDE in a limited demo version.

6.Geany
Geany bills itself as a "small and fast" IDE, but it is by no means a lightweight. Its list of supported languages is about a block long; it's highly customizable; and it features a robust set of plugins which is open for hacking.



Resources:
http://mashable.com/
http://en.wikipedia.org/

